[Tuesday] Python SDK promoted to GA (#69)
xataio/mdx-blog: aanouncing-python-sdk-ga.mdx

---
title: 'Announcing General Availability for Xata's Python SDK'

> description: 'We are excited to ship the first stable version of our Python SDK'

Reviewer: Maybe instead of "stable" we say GA. Stable indirectly implies that all other versions were not stable (which may in fact be the case, but we don't need to let everyone know that 😉)

Author: Sounds good! Adjusted

image:
  src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/xata-go-logos.png
  alt: Xata Python SDK
author: Philip Krauss
date: 08-28-2023
published: true
slug: announcing-the-python-sdk-ga
---

> 

Reviewer: It would be nice to kick off this blog post with more details around why we're investing in a Python SDK generally. We could put together a narrative that is something like this:

- When we released Xata in a private beta our primary focus was on frontend users, investing in a really good TypeScript experience. But we also released a Python SDK that catered to a different audience
- Since that initial release, a few things have changed. The world has gone AI-crazy and Python has unofficially become the language of AI / ML. And, we released support for vector embeddings and our OpenAI integration for ChatGPT on your data
- With that perfect concoction, we've seen an uptick in our Python SDK adoption and lots of interest in a GA release

Something along those lines to help talk about the "why" around our investment in this SDK.

Author: Thank you for the inspiration, I knew a hook was missing, but didn't know how to start.

  {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "branchName": "main",
  }
)
```

In version `1.0.*`, we've redesigned the API interface to incorporate payload options directly into the method signature. We've also optimized the SDK's internal values to make assumptions to reuse the SDK internal values, like the `region`. This results in a more streamlined API structure, and you can achieve functionality using:

```python
xata.databases().create("new_db")
```

## What happens to 0.x?

We are going to continue to support the `0.x` version of the Xata Python SDK with maintenance releases for one more year. New API and security fixes will be added but no helpers or other improvements will be backported. The `0.x` product line of the SDK will be sunsetted on September 1st, 2024.

## What’s next?

Check out our [documentation](https://xata.io/docs/python-sdk/migration-guide) and let us know what you think. We’d love to hear from you! If you think something is missing or found a bug, open a ticket in the [xata-py](https://github.com/xataio/xata-py) repository. All contributions are welcome. You can also follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/xata) or join us in [Discord](https://xata.io/discord).

> 

Reviewer: There's an opportunity here to remind folks about our other SDKs, likely before these closing statements. Definitely TypeScript, but would could highlight the community Go and Rust SDKs as well.

https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go
https://github.com/quanturtle/xata-rs

I'm not sure what the current state of the rust SDK is, but we can [follow up in Discord](https://discord.com/channels/996791218879086662/1001924127705272361/1116809661404958820).

Author: The rust one hasn't moved much and only supports the `/user` endpoint. Let's leave that one out. I'll add the go SDK and the TF provider.

---
title: 'Announcing General Availability of the Python SDK'
description: 'We are excited to ship the first general available version of the Xata Python SDK.'
image:
  src: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/xataio/mdx-blog/main/images/xata-go-logos.png
  alt: Xata Python SDK
author: Philip Krauss
date: 08-28-2023
published: true
slug: announcing-the-python-sdk-ga
---

> Xata's initial focus was to enhance the experience for [Jamstack](https://chat.openai.com/blog/jamstack-mern-lamp-stack-comparison#jamstack-and-databases) engineers, resulting in a robust [TypeScript offering](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@xata.io/client)

Author: Absolutely! Keep on suggesting 😄

  {
    "region": "us-east-1",
    "branchName": "main",
  }
)
```

In version `1.0.*`, we've redesigned the API interface to incorporate payload options directly into the method signature. We've also optimized the SDK's internal values to make assumptions to reuse the SDK internal values, like the `region`. This results in a more streamlined API structure, and you can achieve functionality using:

```python
xata.databases().create("new_db")
```

## What happens to 0.x?

We are going to continue to support the `0.x` version of the Xata Python SDK with maintenance releases for one more year. New API and security fixes will be added but no helpers or other improvements will be backported. The `0.x` product line of the SDK will be sunsetted on September 1st, 2024.

## What’s next?

Check out our [documentation](/docs/python-sdk/migration-guide) and let us know what you think. We’d love to hear from you! If you think something is missing or found a bug, open a ticket in the [xata-py](https://github.com/xataio/xata-py) repository. All contributions are welcome. You can also follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/xata) or join us in [Discord](https://xata.io/discord).

> If Go is your language of choice, our community got you covered! The xata-go SDK, was initated by [Kerdo](https://github.com/kerdokurs) is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go) and don't forget the check out [the story behind xata-go, a Go SDK for Xata](/blog/community-spotlight-xata-go-sdk).

Author: I'm not sure I understand the sentence after the suggestion 😓

> If Go is your language of choice, our community got you covered! The xata-go SDK, was initated by [Kerdo](https://github.com/kerdokurs) is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go) and don't forget the check out [the story behind xata-go, a Go SDK for Xata](/blog/community-spotlight-xata-go-sdk).

Author: aaaaah, now I got it 😄 I fix the typo

> If Go is your language of choice, our community got you covered! The xata-go SDK, was initated by [Kerdo](https://github.com/kerdokurs) is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go) and don't forget the check out [the story behind xata-go, a Go SDK for Xata](/blog/community-spotlight-xata-go-sdk).

Author: done in https://github.com/xataio/mdx-blog/pull/69/commits/d396fe74f31b5d6df0c2ff04469f11e2e51f9bc4

> If Go is your language of choice, our community got you covered! The xata-go SDK, was initated by [Kerdo](https://github.com/kerdokurs) is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go) and don't forget the check out [the story behind xata-go, a Go SDK for Xata](/blog/community-spotlight-xata-go-sdk).

Author: ```suggestion
If Go is your language of choice, our community has got you covered! The xata-go SDK, was initiated by [Kerdo](https://github.com/kerdokurs) and is hosted on [GitHub](https://github.com/kerdokurs/xata-go). Don't forget to check out [the story behind xata-go, a Go SDK for Xata](/blog/community-spotlight-xata-go-sdk).
```
